I thought that some of you might be interested in a new
"statistical/data literacy" course I developed and taught this year. This is a 3-credit,
no-prerequisite "core" course required for all first-year students
at the University of Austin, a newly founded liberal arts college. Six sections
were taught (by five instructors!) to about 90 students.

All the materials are available on line, here: https://qr2-w25.github.io/homepage/

There are a few innovations, which I think have been very successful:

- Many of the readings come from two excellent best selling books: Spiegelhalter's
"Art of Statistics" and Rosler's "Factfulness." These are both written for a general
audience and the students liked them very much.
- There was a strong technical component of the course beyond the scope of Spiegelhalter's
book. It takes seriously covariates (and methods for adjusting for them), causal inference, includes
a bit of Bayes (in the prediction and classification block), and treates hypothesis testing respectfully
but not obsequiously.
- Consistent with my long-held view that computing is central to statistics, there are six
computing tutorials. These are based on R software I developed for my "Lessons in Statistical Modeling"
book. Commands are compact, concise, consistent, and just a handful for functions are needed to
accomplish all of the technical work. All the computing is done in the browser, so students
have nothing to install. The Webr scheme used isn't as powerful as RStudio, but it is much less
daunting to use, especially given the wide range of student interests, backgrounds, and confidence.

A convenient, but not profound feature of the course is the use of `{devoirs}`, a package I
wrote that makes it easy to collect student work automatically and to release answers to selected
questions. On the instructor's end, all that's needed is to set up a Google Form (or the equivalent).
{devoirs} provides R software for correcting and scoring the submissions on the instructor's
computer. Very lightweight, easy to write questions in, involves no subscriptions, and makes it
easy to share materials across instructors.

I'm very interested to hear any reaction to the new course. I hope you'll like it.




